dish name:
Vegan/Vegetarian Pf Chang's Mongolian Beef (Tofu)
from:http://www.food.com/recipe/vegan-vegetarian-pf-changs-mongolian-beef-tofu-380078
Ingredients:
3 tablespoons sesame oil
1 teaspoon fresh ginger, minced
2 tablespoons garlic, chopped
1 cup low sodium soy sauce
1 cup water
1 1/4 cups dark brown sugar
2 (14 ounce) containers extra firm tofu
1/4 cup cornstarch
4 large green onions, cut into 1-2-inch slices
1 large red bell pepper, cut in to long slices lengthwise (optional)
10 ounces mushrooms, quartered (optional)
Directions:
1Remove tofu from water and thoroughly pat with paper towels to dry.
2Slice tofu in half lengthwise, then quarter it by cutting it in half along the narrow sides. You will have four rectangles. Keep them together, then begin slicing 1/4" slices from the narrow end. You should end up with lots of pieces that measure just over 1" long and about 3/4" wide.
3Put these pieces on a plate, sandwiched between paper towels, and press them dry. This should get most of the water out.
4Heat sesame oil in a deep skillet over low/medium heat.
5Add ginger and garlic to the pan and lightly sautee for about 30 seconds. Do not scorch the garlic.
6Add soy sauce and water.
7Dissolve the brown sugar in the liquid, then raise the heat to medium high and boil sauce for about three minutes. It will thicken slightly.
8Remove from heat and cool slightly.
9Put tofu strips inside of sauce and marinate them for 30-60 minutes. You can start your rice during this step, if you plan to use brown rice.
10Use a colander to gently strain the liquid from the tofu. Keep the liquid in a bowl for the next step.
11Add cornstarch to liquid and dissolve.
12Gently place the tofu back into the skillet (or in a wok, if you'd like) and brown it on medium. Don't turn it too often, or it will break. You can add a small amount of sesame oil to help it along.
13Add green onions, peppers and mushrooms to the skillet or wok.
14Pour sauce into the veggie mixture and heat, just until it's nice and hot.
15Serve over brown rice or pad thai noodles.
evaluate:
If you love PF Chang's Mongolian Beef, you'll love this vegan version. I make it for veg and non-veg people, and everyone agrees it's fantastic. I use organic and fresh versions of all of the ingredients. It's just better that way! Also, I have a big family, so this recipe makes a lot of food. Make it like it is and save some for lunches (it keeps well), or just make half the recipe if you don't want leftovers.
